Title: A System to Identify the Intent of a Short Message (SMS) Query for 
Information Retrieval

Authors: Arijit De, Sunil Kopparapu

Abstract: Short Message System (SMS) is extensively used feature on cell 
phones for information retrieval especially in developing countries. 
Typically an information service provider hosts a short code to which the 
person seeking information has to send in their query; the query is 
answered by the system by analyzing the query and retrieves an appropriate 
answer from its database. If the same service provider has access to 
several databases (say yellow pages, movies database); then he has to have 
separate short codes for each of the databases (expensive) or ask the user 
to append a keyword (degraded user experience) to the SMS query to specify 
the query intent. In this paper, we propose a natural language processing 
(NLP) based system which assists in identifying the intent of the query 
without the user having to mention it explicitly. Conventional NLP methods 
based on parsing and tagging fail because most of the short messages are 
transactional in nature and hence are neither complete statements nor 
follow the grammar of the language strictly. The proposed system uses a 
minimal parsing system [1] to extract keywords and keyconcepts from the 
query and uses a rule based approach to identify the intent of the query. 
We first propose a method to evaluate rule-bases and then construct two 
different rule-bases using different strategies to suit query intent 
identification. We evaluate the two rule-bases using the proposed method 
and verify them experimentally.

Reference:
[1] Sunil Kopparapu, Akhilesh Srivastava, PVS Rao, "Minimal Parsing Key 
Concept Based Question Answering System", Human-Computer Interaction, HCI 
Intelligent Multimodal Interaction Environments, p 104-113, LCNS Vol 4552, 
2007,

